# openlcb-devboard
Eagle projects for OpenLCB development boards

## Basic Directory Structure

 - **libraries**:
   Contains Eagle libraries used by one or more of the develpment boards. Libraries from
   different sources should each have their own directory under libraries.

 - **projects**:
   Contains one directory for each board. It also contains directories for templates.
   The project directory should be named according to the board it contains and the name
   should only contain lowercase letters, numbers, and hyphens. Each project directory 
   should contain the following files (where *board* matches the directory name):
   
   - ***board*.sch**: The Eagle schematic file.
   - ***board*.brd**: The Eagle PCB design file.
   - **readme.md**: Markdown file containing overview of board.
   - **spec.md**: Markdown file containing the specification for the board. This is the
     description of what the board should do and any design constraints.
   - **design-notes.md**: Any notes about why the schematic or layout was designed in a
     particular way. This is not a detailed repetition of what is in the schematic, but
     rather is a good palce to keep notes on calculations, design alternatives considered,
     links to data sheets, etc.
   - Other files needed or generated by Eagle.

   The projects directory also contains a README.md file that should be kept up to date
   with overivews of each of the project and template directories. Also note that the 
   .gitignore file for the repository is set up to ignore any of the installation specific
   and Eagle generated files. Only those files necesary to build the design are included
   in the repository.

 - **tools**: Contains Eagle rules files, scripts, etc. used as a part of developing boards.

## Notes on using Git for Eagle designs.
In general, merging schematic, board, and library files doesn't work. Git should be looked
at as a history of revisions but not as a way to manage multiple branches of the same design.
Use the following rules of thumb:

1. Each subdirectory of **projects** should have an "owner" who should control edits to the
   schematic and pcb files. Ultimately the owner of the board should make changes to these
   files and others should provide feedback outside of Eagle. It is advisable that comments
   on schematics be entered as issues on Github so that the conversation is captured and not
   lost to the abyss that is email.  

2. Markdown files can be merged by Git, so they can be changed through a normal fork and pull
   request mechanism.

3. Anyone can start a new project by forking the repository, adding a subdirectory of 
   **projects** and creating a new board. This board can then be submitted back to the main
   repository through pull request.

4. Libraries also cannot be merged reliably. There is no problem with adding new libraries,
   but they shouldn't be deleted. Caution should be used when updating the version of libraries
   to be sure that the change is backward compatible.  

## LICENSE
This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0
International License. To view a copy of this license, visit 
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/ or send a letter to Creative Commons,
PO Box 1866, Mountain View, CA 94042, USA.
